Whether you are brand new to world of instructional design or eLearning development, or you
are trying to get into it for the first time. You will use the ADDIE model. So,
lets understand it.
ADDIE Model is a
Systematic Instructional
Design Framework
Analyze
Gap in learning and goal
Design
Objectives, Content, Assessment, Delivery.
Develop
Create and put together course materials.
Implement
Deliver the course.
Evaluate
Assess the knowledge gained.
Now we will deep dive into it. And understand it.
Analize
Can we just skip to PowerPoint slides?
The team gathers in a meeting room, staring at each other like, “Why are we doing this training
again?”
No, Karen, we need to know what learners actually need first.
A –
Analyze: Identify the learning problem, audience needs, existing knowledge,
and goals.
This initial phase involves identifying the learning needs, goals, and constraints.
Instructional designers assess the target audience's existing knowledge and skills to ensure
that the training aligns with their needs. Key questions addressed include what learners
need to know and the context in which the instruction will occur.
Design
This is when sticky notes take over the walls, and someone
draws a mind map that looks suspiciously like a spaghetti monster.
Objectives?
Check. Confused stares? Double check.
First D in ADDIE is Design
Plan learning objectives, content structure, assessments,
and delivery methods.
In this phase, designers outline the learning objectives and create a detailed plan for the
instructional materials. This includes selecting appropriate instructional strategies,
determining the content structure, and designing assessments to measure learning outcomes.
Develop
Second D in ADDIE is Develop
Create and assemble
course materials, including media, activities, and prototypes.
The content team disappears for three weeks and returns with 400 slides, 10
videos, and a game where you battle compliance dragons.
Someone inevitably
asks, “Do we need the dramatic theme music when opening the module?” Yes.
Yes, we do.
During development, the actual instructional materials
are created based on the design plan. This may involve writing content,
creating multimedia elements, and assembling the course materials. Testing
and revisions are also conducted to ensure quality.
During development, the actual instructional materials are created based on the design plan.
This may involve writing content, creating multimedia elements, and assembling
the course materials. Testing and revisions are also conducted to ensure quality.
Evaluate
Finally the E is Evaluate
Assess the
effectiveness of the training through both formative (ongoing) and summative (
final) evaluations.
The final phase consists of both formative
and summative evaluations. Formative evaluation occurs throughout the ADDIE process
to gather feedback and make improvements, while summative evaluation assesses the effectiveness
of the training after implementation.
Now we find out if the learners retained
anything… or if they just clicked “Next” until the confetti animation played.
Implement
The I in ADDIE is Implement.
Deliver the course to learners,
train facilitators, and ensure all systems are go.
The training finally launches!
Half the team can't log in, one person’s
watching from a beach, and your boss insists on watching it at 2x speed to “save time.”
"
Oops" Please fix the issues and launch again.
This phase involves delivering the instructional materials to the learners. It includes
training facilitators, preparing learners, and ensuring that all necessary resources
are available for effective learning.
ADDIE model
In short is a systematic instructional design framework
used to create effective learning experiences. It stands for Analyze, Design,
Develop, Implement, and Evaluate, each representing a phase in the process.
The model is a flexible, adaptable, and iterative approach to developing training
programs and learning materials.
I can't think of better model that's more widely
known or used in our industry than ADDIE Model.